# chess-game
CS 3110 Final Project

In Board module, we set up the board according to Chinese Chess game. The board is a 9 by 10 rectangle, with a river between the 5th and 6th row. We also defined properties, such as unique names and initial positions of chesses on the board to initialize a chess board. In Command module, we defined legal command to parse the command user enters. It will raise Malformed exception if the input command is in an invalid format. The format that we require user to input is {move <name of chess>-<id of that chess> to (<column coordinate>, <row coordinate>) }. In State module, we implemented logic for movements of all black and red chesses except for 4 Mas (Knights), 4 Ches (Rooks), and 4 Paos (Cannons), and defined rules for where a chess can go to under current state and location based on the rules for Chinese chess game. Shis (Minister), Jiang (Black King), and Shuai (Red King) can move only within the four squares that are marked on the board, and Jiang (Black King) and Shuai (Red King) can only move horizontally or vertically by one step each time, but Shis (Minister) can move horizontally, vertically, or diagonally by one step; Bing (Red Soldier) can only move one step in the direction towards the opponent's territory when it does not across the river, but after it crosses the river, it can move one step each time either forward or horizontally; Xiang (Guard) can only move within its own territory 2 steps vertically and 2 units horizontally each time, but if there is a chess directly in the middle of the Xiang's (Guard’s) current position and the position it wants to move to, the Xiang (Guard) is not allowed to move to that position. For each red chess, the player can't move it to a position that is already occupied by another red chess. Similar to red chess, for each black chess, the player can't move it to a position that is already occupied by another black chess. Moreover, for each red chess, if the player wants to move it to a position that is occupied by a black chess and that movement is allowed, that black chess is captured; for each black chess, if the player wants to move it to a position that is occupied by a red chess and that movement is allowed, that red chess is captured.
  
Enter the command <make play> in terminal under the directory containing our game will build your game engine and launch the interface. This is achieved through the compilation unit Main. When starting the game, a blank chess board will be printed in the very front. This chess board is drawn by using ANSITerminal. In Main, we tied all of our modules together so that red and black players can make movement alternatively. The terminal will display prompt for which player should move in the current round. When a player enters a false command, instead of quitting the whole game, helper message will be displayed, and player can enter another command. If the player enters a command with invalid format, the error message will prompt for invalid format. If the player has a valid format but are not moving the chess according to the rule, the error message will prompt for invalid movement. After a player makes a movement, current chesses on the board, together with their positions, will be printed in the terminal sorted by colors and rows and columns, i.e. only chesses on the same row will be printed in the same line, within this line chesses are sorted by the column number in ascending order. If a player issues the quit command, the interface terminates without any exceptions or error messages from the operating system.
